Feat: OPA plugin how-to (#480)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_how-tos/block-unauthorized-requests-with-opa.md

---
title: Block unauthorized requests in {{site.base_gateway}} with the OPA plugin
content_type: how_to

products:
    - gateway

tier: enterprise

works_on:
    - on-prem
    - konnect

min_version:
  gateway: '3.4'

plugins:
  - opa

entities:
  - service
  - route
  - plugin

tags:
    - security

tldr:
    q: How can I set up a policy with OPA in {{site.base_gateway}}?

>     a: Run an OPA server and create a policy, then enable the OPA plugin and specify the `config.opa_host` and `config.opa_path` parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    a: Run an OPA server and create a policy, then enable the [OPA plugin](/plugins/opa/) and specify the `config.opa_host` and `config.opa_path` parameters.
```

      

tools:
    - deck

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
related_resources:
  - text: Allow clients to choose their authentication methods and prevent unauthorized access
     url: /how-to/allow-multiple-authentication/

```
I thought users might like to see some related how tos about authorization

Author: I don't think this is really related, OPA doesn't deal with authentication

```sh
curl -i -XPUT localhost:8181/v1/policies/example --data-binary @example.rego
```

You should get a `200 OK` response with an empty object in the response body.

## 2. Create decK environment variables 

We'll use decK environment variables for the `opa_host` and `opa_path` in the OPA plugin configuration. This is because these values typically can vary between environments.

In this tutorial, we're using `host.docker.internal` as our host instead of the `localhost` that OPA is using because {{site.base_gateway}} is running in a container that has a different `localhost` to you.

The `opa_path` value is the [Data API](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/rest-api/#data-api) endpoint for the policy.

```
export DECK_OPA_HOST=host.docker.internal
export DECK_OPA_PATH=/v1/data/example/allow_boolean
```

## 3. Enable the OPA plugin

In this example, we'll enable the plugin globally:

{% entity_examples %}
entities:
  plugins:
    - name: opa
      config:
        opa_host: ${host}
        opa_path: ${path}

variables:
  host:
    value: $OPA_HOST
  path:
    value: $OPA_PATH
{% endentity_examples %}

> {:.note}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{:.info}
```
I think this should fix how it renders

> > Note: If your OPA server doesn't use the default `8181` port, you'll need to specify the `config.opa_port` parameter too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If your OPA server doesn't use the default `8181` port, you'll need to specify the `config.opa_port` parameter too.
```

## 4. Validate

To validate that the policy is working, send a request without the required header:

<!--vale off-->
{% validation request-check %}
url: /anything
status_code: 403
method: GET
{% endvalidation %}
<!--vale on-->

> Then try using the header with a different value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then try using a header with an incorrect value:
```

<!--vale off-->
{% validation request-check %}
url: /anything
status_code: 403
method: GET
headers:
    - 'my-secret-header: open'
{% endvalidation %}
<!--vale on-->

In both cases, you should get a `403 Forbidden` response.

> Now send the request with the correct header value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, send the request with the correct header value:
```
